Hey welcome back.
It's me again.
And we're moving on from tuples.
It's nice and easy hopefully.
Now we're talking about sex and I want to be clear that these are not you know a pair that are commonly
used together.
They don't really have much to do with one another other than the fact that they are collections of
data and they're lighter weight than a dictionary or than a list.
OK.
So let's begin what is a set in Python.
Sets are like formal mathematical sets.
So that might mean something to you depending on how far you've gotten math or like me how much you
remember.
There was a time I was working with sets and set notation but I kind of don't remember most of it but
that's OK if you don't have that experience or you don't remember it sets are a collection of data that
do not have duplicate values.
OK.
And there is no order.
So think of it as just a group of items or a group of whatever numbers or strings or whatever that data
type is.
It's just a group of them and it's unique.
Every item in there is unique and there is no order.
Another thing to know you cannot access items in a set by the index because there is no order.
So unlike a list or a tuple you can't use an index they're just floating around in their free form.
So it's sort of in a way it's like a combination between a dictionary and a list because they're not
key value pairs.
So that's more like a list but there's no order which is more like a dictionary.
So sets are useful.
They can be useful if you need to keep track of a collection of elements but you don't care about ordering
keys or values and you don't care about duplicates or if you do care that there aren't duplicates.
It's a better way of putting it.
So let's just look at how you write one first.
So we use the curly braces that we use for dictionaries.
And here let me show you here's a simple example right here.
S equals the set 1 4 5.
So we use curly braces and put in whatever numbers we want.
We don't use the colon syntax to assign key and values like we would with a dictionary.
And that's how Python knows.
It's just a set.
We can also use the set function that Python gives us just like there's a dict that we could use or
a list and so on we pass in whatever we want to be in the set.
And notice that if we pass in a set with duplicates here there are three fives.
What we actually get back only contains 1 5.
So remember there is no order there's an order you know that we write them in here.
But as far as Python is concerned there isn't a rigid order and so we can't access things using an index.
So if we tried to do.
Well first let me just show you.
If we add in another four and another five and I hit enter and then look at s it just contains 1 4 and
5.
So they have to be unique but then also if I tried to do something like s of 0 I get an error set object
does not support indexing.
So that's not a thing.
But what we can do is test if a given element is in a set.
So I can say is for in S which is true is the letter H in S.
That's false.
Also I should point out we're not limited just to uniform collections of sets of numbers.
I could put some letters in there.
Let's put it in a float.
Twenty three point three three three four just like that.
And if we look at s now it contains all of these because they are unique.
And also notice right away actually the order has changed.
So it went to 1 a 4:5 B.
Twenty three point three three three four.
And I actually don't know what is governing that how this order is decided because I assume if we look
every time we look at s that order will be the same even though it's not guaranteed to be the same.
So again don't count on the order.
There is no order and actually there is no way of even if there wasn't order there is no way of referencing
items using an order.
So all of us say it's totally an ordered gelatinous blob of data in their unique data.
So we could tell if an individual item is in a set using in and we can access all the values in a set
using a good old for loop.
So just looks like this exactly what we've seen before.
Just like with a list of four or whatever you know variable name in a set do something for each item.
So we could do this here.
We have X so we could do a 4 thing in S and we could just do print s or.
Well not s print thing.
There we go and ever go we get 1 A for B for 5 B twenty three point three three three four.
OK.
Changing gears for just a moment I want to show a common use case for sets.
So imagine we have a list that has some duplicate data in it.
So maybe this list called Cities represents all of the cities where maybe let's say we're holding a
conference conference on Python and people register from all over the world.
And I want to be able to say hey we have you know people coming from different cities or 10 different
cities or whatever it is.
So I have a list full of the cities generated from you know our sign up form when people register they
specify their city and I want to distill it down to uniques.
So we have you know Los Angeles is a couple times.
Same thing with what else Tokyo is in here more than once.
And boulders in here a couple of times.
So we just want to get a feel for exactly how many unique items there are in this list.
So if we just convert it to a set by doing you know set of cities and let's just start by printing that
out and if we go to my terminal and run this file you can see what we get is a unique set.
So Los Angeles foreigns Boulder Oslo Tokyo Santiago Kioto San Francisco Shanghai.
And there are no duplicates anymore but we're still working with a set.
And we want a list.
So then we can just turn it back into a list just like this and to have it see I think I'm missing a
person.
There we go and let's try running it.
And this time we saw the same number of cities the same cities are here but we're able to distill it
down to a list full of unique cities only.
Or if I just wanted to know how many unique cities there were I could just do print Lenn cities as a
set like this that Rico.
So we're just turning into a set and then printing the length of that.
And if we run that there are nine unique cities.
So that's just a common use case for sets is to take a list and just return a version or a set of that
list containing uniques and then we can convert that back to a list again if we want a list version.
OK we'll leave the video with that for now.
There are a couple of methods we'll talk about with sets in the next video.
See you then.